test. There we go. Stupid update.
Messed up my mic apparently.
Good morning
or I suppose good afternoon.
So here is the uh the plan
for today and for the next bit of work
really.
Took a few days off. I'm hoping I'm
substantially refreshed by this. We will
see today based on how work goes. If so,
then I know what the next block of work
is. And I know what needs to be done
next for RL to advance.
If not, then I will take care of some
administrative stuff this week, catch up
on a bunch of meetings, on business
stuff. We'll try the hard research block
next week,
but we shall see.
But regardless,
the thing that needs to happen with
Puffer now is hyper pram sweeps need to
be way faster than they are. There's a
lot of overhead.
They need to be able to cleanly account
for two different costs being steps and
wall clock time in a way that's clean
and makes sense. This needs to be
automatic.
And this needs to be robust and let us
sweep over a bunch of parameters that we
haven't been previously using.
The ideal goal for this is that we get
nice clean parto curves
uh for solving a given task for
achieving a level of performance in
terms of uh steps and in terms of
compute. That is the goal. There's
optimization we can do from there quite
a bit of it but that is the core simple
goal.
Switch the view over.
Hello, Tim. Welcome.
We have a few other things to do as well
today.
welcome Kyoko.
This is you can optimize the semi-off
stuff. Not exactly. The semi-offpaul
stuff currently Tim does not work. Uh
from the article that I wrote, we have a
precise mathematical reason why it
doesn't work. And it is unlikely that
any of the current methods out there in
that entire class are going to work.
So what this is is instead of doing all
those things that aren't going to work,
this is something that I can basically
guarantee is going to work 20 times
better than what we have now, not 200
times maybe, but 20 times. We're going
to get that. We're going to get that
nice and stable. And then if we want to
get from there to, you know, 100x, maybe
we will reconsider.
The article really gives you precise
details though on everything that I I
discovered. It's all out there now.
Yeah, but it's not necessarily I guess
technic the only off policyiness that's
being introduced here is potentially
additional updates. Uh this is not
including the replay buffer that is
separate.
Holy hell, that is slow.
It's like literally 30x lower than on
GPU. That's funny.
Oh, did I mess with the config or
something? Why is it it's solved at 5
mil?
Oh, I probably just did 20 mil because
it's like instantaneous either way,
right? Even though you don't need it.
Yeah. So, this is kind of the thing,
right? You can see the extent to which
we just didn't even care about time
steps. Like it's 20 million time steps
for cartpole. Buffer is not that bad
that it needs 20 million total time
step. It's just that they're basically
free. So we don't care, right? No expert
data. Tim,
this is separate.
Welcome, Weston.
I think I'm probably going to be in Palo
Alto like twoish more weeks.
We shall see.
The goal is to finish my cut here.
So, as long as I want to do my running
training
test update, everything is fast until
you get to masking out illegal actions.
Nothing learned if you don't mask and
renormalize
in progress.
Interesting.
Um,
and presumably, do you mean that it gets
slow in the network side or in the
environment side computing which actions
are legal? Jess
My You're finally awake. Didn't Wait,
what?
Pausing. I beg for pausing, resuming
sweeps if you're fiddling.
Uh, maybe.
Well, yeah, maybe it's you have to save
the state of Gaussian processes, which
is annoying. You don't live there. I am
seasonally here. Seasonal Tim
and I copy pasta.
Oh, is it a zoomer one? Cuz I don't know
that one.
Thoughts on using SIMD for some M like
Cartpole? Weston. Cartpole is so bloody
fast that it doesn't matter if you make
it faster. It's already not using any
substantial compute time.
So you would use SIMD not on M's like
cartpole. You would use like you would
do more advanced optimization on M's
where it actually matters.
I can appreciate speed for the sake of
speed as much as the next guy.
But like let me solve RL, right?
What
what are your thoughts on the Prime
Intellect RL environment hub? I mean, it
seems cool. They're generally doing cool
stuff. I It's not RL environments,
right? It's LMRL environments. It's like
really, really different from this type
of stuff.
On the network side, evaluate is way
slower than train.
How are you normalizing and and doing
stuff like that?
I mean, presumably it's just that the
action space is massive, Jess, right?
And like just having the giant ass off
max is annoying.
I would go look into like different ways
that chess action space has been
parameterized.
Like the flat one is really convenient
in some sense,
right? It's like a really convenient
one, but I don't know if it's
like reasonable to expect it to be
performant or not.
More calcs during a single step
on remote.
Yes, Weston. But it's not
I could be mistaken here, but I don't
think it's not like a simple
optimization to apply like generally to
all M's.
It is like a specific you'd have to
apply specific optimizations to specific
portions of each end that you want,
right?
most folks are doing the alpha zero
approach which is flat action
basic
helps but not enough
most folks care about performance
supervised with value head rather than a
policy
alpha beta search with a value head.
There are some works on like doing chess
without search, right?
I'm trying to think fundamentally what
you can do with that stupidly big action
space.
I mean you could try like pointer net
type thing. Pointer net thing is like
you give it like top end actions or
whatever. You give it like n actions and
it has to pick.
I suppose you could do that.
Does it really just I guess it makes
sense. it just doesn't learn
anything if you don't give it um
you know this is something I've been
meaning to investigate like in my mind
if this is set up correctly it should be
able to learn to make valid moves quite
quickly
something is going wrong that it's not
like right because invalid move map it's
a one step super easy no credit
assignment Right.
I just run more multiple M's at once. So
technically not faster, just more.
Yeah. So Weston, there's a maximum
number of M uh that you can run
productively
and we kind of already do that.
And are honestly impressive. Fast
training on CPU
10 million. 10. Wait, what?
I do not believe that you have fast 10
to 15 million params on CPU.
Like no way, right?
Like not fast by puffer standards,
right?
Not by puffer standards, but fast. Well,
we should get puffer standards, right,
Jess?
No, I I see this being a real problem.
I would probably have to run some tests,
right? Like, in my mind, you should be
able to learn
invalid action reduction quickly.
I've seen it not really work with Go,
though.
Well, but then again, you don't
necessarily know
I don't think we ever logged like
invalid move percentage rates. You
should probably give it like a like a
negative penalty for invalid actions and
then also log like the fraction of
invalid actions being made. See if
that's going down correctly or not.
I don't know what you mean. NUE
including some Okay. Is this like some
broader
broader thing?
You haven't tried some D? No, Weston.
Because it's
you can mess with that stuff for sure,
but like that's going to be applicable
to the slower ends more than anything.
Honestly, even like if you have to do um
like valid action computation, maybe
even in chess,
CPU comput is still a large bottleneck
for me.
What m are you doing that CPU is a
bottleneck? Literally, it's not a
bottleneck on neural MMO 3.
Like most of the time that computer like
CPU is a bottleneck, you're doing
something wrong.
Most of the time
Okay. Okay. So, the plan for this is
going to have to be
Color agnosticism.
What do you mean color agnosticism?
That's not typic. Like that shouldn't be
too hard to do either way.
It's just flipping the board.
Where are you streaming?
Where am I streaming from? I'm in Palo
Alto at the moment.
Old laptop CPU.
My physics compute like pendulums. Yeah,
so that would make sense, Weston. Um,
but if you're on an old laptop, like
then if you're training on CPU, you're
going to be bound by that anyways,
right?
Like I can optimize this for relatively
low end, but I can optimize this for
like potato.
This is why we have the cluster, right?
and like repeat contributors can get
access to our machines
cuz the barrier to entry is very low but
it's not nothing
read from MPSL. Yeah, that'll help a
lot.
I mean, like I said, right, we have
just show this real quick.
We have machines in the back here. You
can get access to one of these.
You submit some cool stuff to uh puffer.
I mean, I bought these expressly for
that purpose.
Yeah, Weston. I've I've meant to be like
I've meant to do that at various points.
I've just like never had to for any
specific project,
you know.
Yes, we like the flag.
I mean, it's the training facility,
right? You have to have a flag in your
training facility.
Yo, what's up, Ryan? You doing that
hack?
Coming up with next research idea.
Million step per second net hack seems
like a pretty solid one to me.
I mean the other thing that you can do
right it's I like the things that like
make sense for you to me are either that
or um if you want to actually like make
a lot of the real science side stuff uh
in like curriculum and metalarning and
like multi-agent and all these different
things work. We can actually do it now
with puffer. You would have to write
like you'd have to write M's in C to do
it, but they would be like super trivial
toy M's in C. I could do like I could
probably do most of these in like a
couple hours a piece myself. Um, and
it's mostly experiment work after that.
And there are multiple different things
that you could do
assuming you're not just getting LLM
pled.
Welcome all in
definitely wants to do some bigger
picture stuff and I kind of agree.
I don't think LLM stuff is bigger
picture stuff at the moment.
can hop on a call
if uh you don't mind that we're still on
the stream. Yeah.
Let me fix my
Can you hear me now?
Yeah, there we go. Stupid Windows update
always breaks everything.
How's it going?
Let me fix this as well. Say something.
>> Hello.
>> Yeah, there. Okay. Okay, I got
everything fixed now.
>> Perfect. I found out some cool stuff in
the last couple weeks. Put an article
out on it. I found the core mathematical
reason why all this like these offp and
whatever algorithms just suck.
>> Oh, I think I read that. Yeah, that was
a good article.
>> So, that is actually settled now, which
is kind of cool.
>> That's awesome. So, what's next then?
I think I can just literally rehyper
parameter tune everything with our like
awesome algorithm. And if I set
everything up correctly, we're going to
get um like 20x sample efficiency on
everything for like less than 10x
compute. Like we're going to get not
we're not going to get soda sample f,
but we're going to get like practical
real world sample f for basically free.
>> That's awesome.
>> And then there's more to do after that,
but like this is a damn good start. And
like basically it's just become clear to
me that none of this published stuff
actually works at all as advertised. Um
way more so than before. Like before it
was just like you know me generally
putting together intuition and
experience. Now it's I have actual
precise reasoning for everything.
Mhm. Well, yeah, that's been my problem
because I've I've been doing a insane
amount of literature review this past
week and I keep seeing papers that
>> do the thing I wanted to do and it seems
like it works, but then if the thing
they're doing worked, it would have
solved so many problems that we haven't
solved yet.
>> Can't actually work in general.
>> It just doesn't. I tried the world model
stuff is a total mess. Off Paul's a
total mess. Like everything's a mess.
>> Yeah. So the question I had for you was
I'm looking at a lot of methods that
like kind of so you know go explore
right kind of takes advantage of the
fact that you could reset the
environment.
>> That's funny that we actually got to
that at the same I was thinking about
that as like that would actually work.
Yeah, it it works, but you know, of
course, it only works in simulation. And
even the policy based one still relies
on you having like a deterministic
simulator. Though I guess my question
was since a lot of the stuff you're
doing depends on the ability to write
your problems as a fast simulator, have
you thought about like what kind of
problems can and can't be simulated?
Like obviously anything with a human
interaction is really really hard to
simulate but I don't have any clear
ideas outside of that of like if we have
a method that solves any simulation.
>> Yeah.
>> What problems can be actually solved?
>> A lot of them. Um and honestly the go
explore stuff is not even that hard to
build into sims, right? Like you just
need to build the sim in a way that it
is efficiently state setable. Ideally
batch state setable, right?
>> You don't even need to do that. It just
has to be deterministic and you save the
list of actions to get you to the state
you want.
>> Yeah, but we want it to actually be
fast.
>> Yeah. Yeah. If you want it to be fast,
that that helps.
>> I think that's crucial. I think that
should be made like first class citizen
is can you do it in sim fast? And the
answer is yes. Like if you just do it
smart from the start, the answer is yes.
Well, I just mean the method will still
work as long as it's deterministic and
it's not that slow because like RL takes
a long time, but just building one
trajectory to the point you want to get
to is that slow. Like you have to take
an extra thousand steps during your
reset. It's not like ideal, but it's not
bad.
>> I have too much respect for like what
you get out of efficient M now to agree
with that.
Okay,
>> let's say like you're right in theory,
but the thing is in practice your
experiments just take too long and you
get nothing done.
>> Okay, but like back to the question, are
there any things that you've thought of
that are like, yeah, we would never want
to build a sim for that because it just
either is too complicated or we would
never be able to get it precise enough
to transfer or um
>> I don't know like have you thought about
like what the limits of doing all this
work in simulation is?
Well, I don't even necessarily know how
good RL is like conceptually in the low
data regime at this point.
>> Like we might just be in the wrong
[ __ ] field.
>> I I do agree with that,
>> right? Like I in my mind
I guess this is where the shitty
modelbased stuff comes in, but it's like
Do you know how much data that they they
go through in hallucination for like
Atari in dreamer?
Like how much
>> imagination step?
>> Yeah. Do you know how much it is?
>> I know it's a pretty insane amount.
>> You know roughly
>> like
>> uh I mean they do like 16 imaginary
steps per sampled real step, but they
have a replay buffer so those ratios
could be different. I read a number
somewhere that was 650 billion steps of
imagined data for a [ __ ] arcade game.
>> I I could believe that. Yeah, cuz it's
um
>> that's what we did for three.
>> We know what it is, right? It's 64
replay ratio times 16 imaginary steps.
So that's what
>> you got to be careful because of the way
they define these things. This was the
other trick that I found is they
actually the way that replay ratios is
defined. It's number of gradient steps
per sample. It doesn't take into account
the mini batch size.
>> Oh, okay.
>> It's really sketch. But basically, yeah,
what happened is it turns out there's a
difference of like tens of thousands in
the amount of compute applied to onpaul
versus like wall clock efficient on
pull.
>> It's like tens of thousands difference.
>> Yeah, they I think they run each data
point like or like imagine data point.
>> They probably have a thousand times the
amount of imagined data points that you
would train an on policy method with.
It's It's an obscene amount.
>> It's an obscene amount. And yeah, I
basically
It's not like simple to make work
either. It's not like any It's not like
if you sneeze in the general direction
of uh world model based stuff, that
stuff works.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Like I tried this stuff and I got it to
solve Pong eventually and that was the
that was like it.
>> Yeah,
>> it's really sketchy. So, I think that
that's probably what you would have to
do
>> um if you wanted to go to a really low
data regime. It's like a completely sort
of different
>> approach, but like
>> that whole area of work is super
sketchy.
>> Um
>> Yeah. So, okay.
>> And I don't even think it's slightly
more
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I think I agree with you. I
think RL just might not be the right
paradigm at that level of amount.
>> The type of RL we're used to at the very
least, right? like model free
um like engineering heavy like that type
of stuff. It's like oh it's scalable
right but it's like yeah let's just
ignore the constant factor of 10,000
>> sure
>> right which is like
>> not practical in the lease for anything.
>> Yeah slightly different question. Do you
think there's a difference between the
simulators that we can write
deterministically and those that we
don't have a deterministic simulator
for? And like one example of that is
>> well so sometimes that's true, sometimes
it isn't. So like for example, you can
create a deterministic simulator that
mimics Minecraft.
>> Mhm.
>> But Minecraft itself, I don't think the
dynamics are suitable. I might be wrong
about that, but like I don't think you
can dynamic like you can't see the
skeleton behavior or anything like that.
So if you want to train on Minecraft,
you have to recreate it from scratch.
>> Well, you have to do that anyways
because it's slow as hell. Sure,
that's true. Um, but do you think Well,
I guess it's just a question of how
feasible it is to recreate these things.
>> Very if they're useful enough.
>> I mean, here you and I are used to
thinking about like can we create big
like recreate big game, right, for
research. That's not the actual end goal
of this though, right? It's like
recreate big industrial sim to solve
incredibly like broadly useful and
profitable problem. You can absolutely
if it's like, yeah, hey, it's going to
take us, you know, it's going to take us
a couple million bucks to rewrite this
sim versus you're going to go have to
buy, you know, tens of millions of
dollars worth of GPU hours to train this
super clunky model that's going to also
still be expensive to deploy. Like it's
a clear clear-cut win,
>> right?
>> That's true. So I
>> in my mind at least like fast sim with I
data regime RL is really good and like
slightly slower sim it this is what I'm
solving right now right we're still
going to be able to do that well it's
only when stuff gets really slow that it
gets sketch
>> gotcha
okay because yeah I've been thinking
about some stuff in the kind of go
explore direction but that
>> I think it works
>> I actually I was wondering about like
doing more of that type of stuff. The
only reason I haven't is because, you
know, there are industry people with
existing Sims that they want to like run
stuff on existing Sims. Um, yeah,
>> but I like even like big game companies,
right? But I think eventually that yeah,
we're probably going to want to do that.
Um,
I haven't started investing into that
stuff just yet because like the current
thing I'm doing can already be way much
like way way better. That might be like
after okay, we have good on polar. This
is about as good as it's going to be
without making stuff way harder, more
complicated or whatever. Um,
>> yeah,
>> then I think it's like okay, can we do
go explore things? And I wouldn't do
like the can you get like train a policy
to get back to X state or like I
wouldn't even do that. Just do basically
the original formulation. Assume we just
get fast state sets and crush it from
there.
>> Yeah. I mean if we're in the setting
where we're going to have those anyways.
No reason to do the whole
>> policy based exploration thing.
>> And I just who do you need to address
his question in the chat as well?
>> Not who do you need like what the [ __ ]
is a psychic? I don't know who's this
whatever.
No. Was it Thomas or something?
>> I don't freaking know. Ninja. Good
enough.
>> Thoughts on the follow. Oh, intelligent
go explore. Is that Is that what he's
talking about?
>> First return then explore.
>> I don't think intelligent go explore is
the LLM one or no.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. The nonl
basically just go explore with the full
condition policy.
>> Yeah. the um I'll probably I'm looking
at ideas that are in the in the ballpark
of go explore and intelligent go explore
probably like some middle ground between
the two because that wasn't intelligent
go explore was actually just a prompting
method basically
>> which is not what I'm interested in but
something that actually trains an RL
agent
>> not have to rewrite net hack
>> um no net hack is suitable
>> oh so it's just going to be slow as hell
But uh
>> well, okay, your your version of slow as
hell is one thing. If there's an LM of
the loop, I think net hack is actually
not going to be the bottleneck.
>> I wouldn't put an L. I just my version
of this was get million stat per second
net hack and just crush everyone.
I do think that that is probably a
baseline that I want to build, but
there's I got to figure out what's going
to make sense because honestly the the
correct answer is probably don't do the
research on net hack first. Like do it
on crafter or something.
>> That's even slower
>> if it works. Uh I would do it on um
craftex probably like the uh
>> that's actually still kind of too slow.
>> That's actually slower than net hack. I
don't think that me rewriting crafter in
C is going to be faster. Like obviously
if I did it it would be, but that sounds
like it'll take a while.
>> Craft axe I could make 10 to 20x faster
uh in C.
>> It's slow as hell. It's like 100 I think
you can maybe get it to 200k,
>> but you're using your whole GPU on that.
That's not CPU.
>> Yeah,
>> in the ass.
>> That's true.
>> I don't know. Jax [ __ ] is miserable.
>> Yeah, I probably wouldn't even want to
run it in Jax if I could avoid it or
like if you
>> Well, you have to for craft axe.
>> Well, you could run it on GPU but then
use like CPU based infrastructure.
>> Oh,
>> I'm not sure what the
>> it's not sure what that would look like
though.
>> I've tried that before. I think it's
>> it's a little sketch.
>> Yeah,
>> like we just I don't know. I'm so sick
of dealing with crap like stupid clever
infra. It's just stuff needs to just go
to C and be fast and not be stupid.
>> Yeah. Well, okay. Do you have an
environment that is
similar to crafter
>> that has like hard exploration problems
in it? So, basically I'm looking for
something that has
>> Yeah. So, what's like the hard
exploration task in there? You have to
go fight enemy, pick up tools, like
equip tools, go harvest like other
things around map, get equipment, equip
things, go fight and find and fight
stronger enemy that you can still kill
and repeat 5x to get max level here and
such. And you have log linear learning
curves that have been have baselines up
to 600 some odd billion steps.
Okay, I could see a uh a neural mo3
thing working.
>> I mean, that's fast at the very least if
you want like a relatively tough
>> and it's the only thing that we haven't
just full solved pretty much in our
>> Yeah.
>> tool kit.
>> I'll consider that one because that
would be nice.
>> I don't run all my experiments on it.
Did
>> I show you? I did put in the article the
the crazy curve on neural MMO with a
little sample reuse, right?
Uh I don't remember.
>> So basically it usually it takes five
billion steps to start learning anything
on neural MMO3.
>> If you give it a tiny bit of replay
data, just high advantage data, even
though it's off Paul, you learn
instantly
>> because it's a really really sparse task
from a a random policy,
>> right?
>> Because you have to basically stumble
into and defeat a level one enemy and
it's just really sparse.
Let me let me find that article. So, I
can see this curve.
>> I spent some time on it. A good article.
>> Yeah, I think I read most of it. I think
I just forgot the uh the curve itself.
>> Where is
>> you do real research now?
>> This this is some some serious research
>> like Oh, do I'm sorry. Do do you
publish? No. Oh, no. I'm sorry. I do
real research now.
slowly just piss off more and more nap
of academia.
>> Okay. So, honestly, based on this curve,
I think this idea I've been floating
around would probably
>> work kind of well under three. So,
>> that's a kind of crazy curve, right?
>> That is a crazy curve. the uh
>> that's one of the cooler things I found
out
>> and that works with a few different
things as well. Like there are a few
different methods that will get you that
sort of a curve as well.
>> Right. Right.
Okay.
>> But offpaul in general sucks. You can't
do that. So there's not like a clean way
that I found so far to put this into
onpaul.
>> Right.
It might end up being something as dumb
and simple as just like do a behavioral
cloning step every so often and just
don't let like don't train the value
function during that so it doesn't get
too stale and like use separate value
head. I don't know. Um but I haven't
messed with that enough.
I did find this one paper that was kind
of cool. Let me see if I can find it
again. It was um it was basically
talking about how
um behavior cloning well it wasn't
really focused on behavior cloning.
Um it was basically talking about how if
you want to like clone from a policy
>> and use that for transfer learning. So
you have like a policy that's good at
some stuff but bad at like kind of the
start states uh in a task then
um direct behavior cloning or like
fine-tuning generally doesn't work
because the agent will forget how to do
all the stuff it knows how to do at the
end of the game when it's focusing on
like getting through the early game. Um,
so not like training, it's not like
behavior cloning from an RL agent, but
if you imagine like behavior cloning
from like an LM or something that knows
important things about the game, but
isn't good at just basic control, then
uh, as you fine-tune it, gets good at
control and forgets all of its knowledge
of the rest of the game. So, it was
basically methods of preventing
forgetting.
But here it is. Um,
>> you just mix all your damn data together
if you can.
Yeah, they basically showed a bunch of
different methods of preventing
forgetting and they test on net hack and
Montazuma's revenge, which I kind of
liked because
>> those are kind of the exact settings I'd
want to see the stuff in this article.
Here it is.
Also, the the author's done some cool
stuff on that hack. So,
>> I've seen like such stupid stuff happen
over the last few weeks with my own lit
review.
Yeah,
>> like you know stuff where it's like,
"Oh, it's behavioral cloning instead of
RL. Yay." But then it turns out to be
2,000x sample reuse.
>> Like literally,
>> or even like
>> you're seeing these ideas that are like
using LM to suggest actions and they
test them in like the most basic
environments where they're obviously
going to be good. And I'm I'm thinking
that there's just no point in studying
anything like that because they probably
just aren't good enough in real RL
environments.
Yeah, you see why I've gotten myself out
of academia. It's like I just I want to
go do real work.
>> Um
You don't need an LLM for this [ __ ]
>> No, no. This This isn't LM based. I That
was just the example.
>> Okay.
This is it's basically just if you have
a method that's already good at
something and you fine-tune it with RL
um like you have you have a policy
that's behavior cloned up to a certain
level and you want to improve it with
RL, it'll actually get worse because it
forgets how to do
>> your bloody data, shouldn't you?
>> Yeah. This is basically talking about
different ways of solving it.
>> Yeah. um they evaluate a bunch of
>> mix. Well, to be fair, that is actually
not that far from what I would do, but I
would I think that you just have to mix
your data and you either don't do too
many behavioral cloning steps or you
have to like kale your value function or
something like that.
>> Yeah.
And that's basically what this paper is
showing. It's all these evaluations on
and the important thing to me is they
evaluated on net hack, which is like
>> the hardest setting for that kind of
problem.
But in my mind, this still doesn't solve
because it's like this is still use
expert data,
>> I suppose.
>> Um,
>> cloning.
>> So, well, no, it's not expert data. It's
like decent data. So, we don't there is
no expert data for net hack in the sense
that there's no data on beating the
game.
Um I there might be like a couple
examples in the data set, but for the
most part the the data goes to like 20%
through the game.
>> There's still like
in my mind you should be able to
basically
you I'd like a a method that just allows
you to reuse samples that I can dump if
I have external data I can dump data
into that buffer. If I don't have data
from an external source, I can like it
could still be highest advantage
segments or something.
And then it's effective like just better
prioritize replay. There's no
>> That's true. But if you had a method
that mixed behavior cloning with RL
tuning in some capacity, then this would
be relevant because it's basically a way
to make the RL fine tuning work better
on top of your behavior cloning. So like
even if you're just doing self behavior
cloning on high advantage samples, then
this is relevant because
>> yeah,
>> it's a way of making that work better.
I don't know. Maybe
maybe that's a good enough thing to do.
I guess there isn't like
It seems so stupid to me that this is
what we're stuck with that we just can't
use
>> we just don't have a good way to use off
Paul data at all.
>> It it really is frustrating. I keep
looking at methods and I'm realizing
that we're all like all these different
approaches are stuck in the exact same
problem and no one has a solution to it.
I'm just
>> Well, nobody recognizes the damn
problem. Like I guarantee you people are
going to read the article is so obvious.
No, you didn't know that, right? Like
>> like that's not at least to that level
of detail. No, there's basically no
understanding of that anywhere. [ __ ] I
didn't know like I didn't know until I
went and really looked at stuff. Um
>> Yep.
I it could just be that yeah the thing
of doing behavioral cloning is just what
we do.
That seems so bad to me because
behavioral cloning is not
it's not like a nicely weighted.
Do you see the advantage weighted
regression paper?
>> Advantage weighted I don't think so.
>> Okay. So there's a paper called
advantage weighted regression that's
just behavioral cloning weighted by an
advantage function. Mhm.
>> The skeleton in the closet there, right,
is that they use a utterly stupid amount
of uh resampling.
>> Okay.
>> So, it's like
in my mind, if anything, this should
improve sample efficiency, right?
>> Mhm.
>> I mean, not even it should improve a
sample efficiency and wall clock both,
>> right?
>> Like because you should be spending less
time on stupid samples that don't tell
you anything. just a couple more updates
on samples that actually do tell you
something. We can't do that now.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you can get this to work, you
also solve the forgetting problem,
right? You can just keep around data
from different chunks of this. Like you
can just keep around different chunks of
good data from different parts of the
trajectories.
>> Yeah.
>> But like you basically can solve
everything if we just solve this one
stupid thing. But I spent three weeks on
it and I don't know. Um, I know what
doesn't work. I have a very, very good
understanding of what doesn't work. And
I at least know I can get us a 20x
sample of efficiency for basically free.
>> Okay,
>> look at these plots. This is 1878.
Who has any data?
I'm mostly looking at methods that can
like
still dealing with the exploration
problem because I feel like
since I was working on cricket learning
for a while, a big problem with it is
just that even if you have a good set of
tasks, it takes agents so long to just
randomly discover the behavior they need
to solve one of the small tasks that
like curriculum learning works worse
because exploration's so hard. But if we
could make exploration better, then some
of the curriculum learning like just
skyrockets your performance because
you're solving tasks left and right.
>> I mean, it's usually the case that a lot
of these older bits of research, even if
they were completely wrong on 90% of
stuff, there's usually like a little
glimmer of something in there.
>> Yeah.
>> These surprisal based things and like
world model, like there's there's
something to this stuff. It just hasn't
been done in a reasonable way. Um,
>> yeah,
>> like agents are all agents don't like
try [ __ ] out when they're stuck.
>> Like I've never seen that, right? And
it's like a very
>> once you get to a certain level of
intelligence.
>> Like the minimal expectation is you just
start trying [ __ ] out when you're stuck,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> And it's just never happened.
>> Yeah. I mean that's why go explore was
good in those deterministic environments
because like you use your good policy
for a while and then you do random stuff
once you're at a new state which makes
sense and then intelligent go explore
also makes sense you use an LM to choose
your random actions so it's like
slightly more common sense based
>> welcome drover
>> but there's still no there's still no
approach that does that really
effectively for
hard exploration RL environments in like
somehat for stochcastic settings.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I'm kind of looking at those. I'm
trying to see if I can come up with a
method that could theoretically solve
that hack. I'll probably won't test on
that hack first because it's such a
>> if you just made the damn thing fast, it
would be a lot easier on you.
>> Yeah, but like that level of like that's
a lot of work. Like I can I can run like
we can run the stuff even if we run it
fast. Like recreating the baseline is
such a huge amount of work. H
>> and I'll probably bite the bullet and do
it at some point, but I don't know if I
want to do it as the first step to test
something. Like I think I want to get
results fast.
>> Yeah, that's fair.
>> But I I also will probably I will try my
best to insist that we put out results
on that hack if I
>> If you want fast M, you really like the
much easier thing to learn to just do
quickly
>> is you should just learn to hack
together some probe MS and see. It's
really not that hard. It's like a few
hundred lines of code. You can do it in
a few hours once you have the basics
down and it'll just be like really
helpful for the next couple years for
you.
>> That might be true.
>> It's really not hard. Like if you just
look at some of the code, it's not hard.
>> Yeah, I I do think neural MMO 3 would be
a very good starting point on its own
though.
>> Yeah, that's obviously the bigger one.
That's not like a few hour project to
make that end. But I mean I have built
simpler M's like and there was literally
one time for a client where
>> I uh I had them ask me a thing about
memory. I sat down, I wrote a probe, I
ran 16 experiments and wrote up a small
report in like three hours.
>> Yeah, that's nice.
Yeah, Dro, this is um this is going to
be based on hyperpar tuning stuff that
we're going to be doing here.
How are things otherwise? Have you uh
decided to
start my ludicrous training regime?
>> I don't think I know all the details of
it, but the answer is definitely no. I
have been exercising though.
>> Wait until you see the results of this
thing.
>> You don't play League. Otherwise, I
could give you a a reference point.
I know a little bit about League, but I
definitely don't play it.
>> Have you seen Have you seen the pro like
the profile characters of that like the
the profile pictures of from that game?
Like the artwork for the characters?
>> That game is hilarious because half of
the characters are just random chibies
and the other half are just like very
sexy people.
>> Yeah.
>> So yeah, think like I don't know like
Kane or Trindir or one of those. That's
the the physique goal. Yeah.
>> Hell yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I'm not getting there. I'm
trying to get to like run two miles
without dying.
>> It does get easier. My suggestion is for
running, you just like suck it up and
you do it six days a week and you
stretch. You do stretch a bit.
>> Um,
yeah, you stretch a bit.
>> If stuff feels like it's wrong, not just
sore, but like wrong, you take a break
before you hurt yourself.
But I did that and this is now I
finished the first month of this
training block and um I went from like
six miles being hard and like hour 12
hour 15 to I got a PR 53 minutes for
this 10k on a hard course like down was
that 20 more than 20 minutes right?
>> Yeah like 20 minutes. Um, and like I
did, you know, a 16 mileer, I did a
couple half marathons
in the course of a month. So, you can
build it very very quickly, but uh, it
just it's going to suck for a few weeks.
That's basically it.
>> Yeah.
>> Put on an audiobook, zone out, just run.
>> Yeah,
>> I think that's that's the plan. I mean,
I've been doing good so far. See if I
can keep it up.
>> It is very much worth it. It's the most
worthwhile thing I do. But it does suck.
It does suck. It It doesn't stop
sucking,
>> but you get able to deal with it better.
>> Yeah.
>> That and the deadlifts five times a
week.
>> We We'll work our way to that.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
yeah, honestly, I'm I'm pretty excited
about the post talk in general. Everyone
in the lab is super cool. That's fun.
>> Doing cool research. I'm excited.
>> Yeah. Well, hopefully I can run some
support for this stuff. Um,
>> yeah, I think we'll be talking much more
once I have an idea off the ground
because
>> yeah,
>> I would like to be able to run things in
Puffer Loop if I can.
>> Just take a quick look at like take a
quick look at the snake code or
whatever. Have I shown you that before?
>> Yeah, I've seen it.
>> Just like go read that and then just
you'll see that it's like, oh, okay, I
can do this.
Yeah. No, honestly, Darl Mo seems like
the best fit. So, I think that's a good
starting point.
>> Rover, this is the RL training regime.
It's just the RL applied to the
researcher instead of to the researchers
agents.
That's important. All right.
All right. Yeah, I'm going to get back
to reading copious amount of papers and
putting something together that I can
actually work on.
>> I'm go back to fixing this ridiculous
field.
>> Please do.
>> Yeah, we'll be done. All right, see you.
>> All right, see you.
Always fun chatting with Ryan.
Holy, welcome to all the folks on
YouTube. Every time I end up like
shooting the [ __ ] with one of my
researcher buds, everybody's very
interested all of a sudden. For folks
new around here, I'm Joseph. I do RL
research. I stream all of my research. I
build Puffer Lib. Puffer Lib is open-
source extremely extremely fast
reinforcement learning.
You can get involved and start training
agents on your laptop in seconds.
Many of our contributors came in with no
RL experience. They built things like
this and now see on our website. So
yeah, there you go.
Okay. Um
the goal that I was thinking about
before that call was how we are going to
adjust Huffer Lib. uh to automatically
run a ton of experiments that not only
see how fast we can train agents but
also uh how few samples we and to
balance both of those goals
cleanly.
So I know
this one's pretty easy. I can set one
hidden size parameter.
I have these two different num ms
parameters.
I can just fix the number of cores to
some number, right?
I think I can. Yeah, if I just fix
vecums
and only tune numms,
I think that'll be fine.
Just got to my remote place in Spain.
Going to lock in for the next 10 days.
That is excellent.
That's honestly precisely what I
recommend is stay off social media, do a
ton of exercise,
focus on work for good chunks of time.
Mostly how I work, frankly.
Today is kind of an experimental day to
see if I feel refreshed enough to really
start the next block of work or not yet.
I did a pretty heavy block for three
weeks while I was doing all the uh the
research on offpaul and world models and
stuff. And uh
I'm also in the last couple weeks of a
very brutal cut. So
I'm not necessarily hungry, but I am
fatigued. Very much fatigued.
So we're going to see if I can make
progress on this or not. If I can't, I
will go do other things for the next
week. If I can, then we will start on
this
veum m. Yeah, everybody hates that
distinction. I should probably change
vecum m to like veum workers,
but the thing is it's the total number
of environments is vecum m times mnum
mms. And I probably need to change the
names at some point.
Feel myself getting a bit scrolly. Yeah.
So the problem with Xrover is it's a
necessary evil, right? X is like a very
necessary evil. I would be a much
happier person, I think, if I just
completely deleted it. But the thing is
this is the entire source of like reach
for Puffer and most of our inbound stuff
for clients and a lot of other stuff,
right?
So in my mind, this is this replaces
advertising for all of my work. Now, I
wish that the app I used for that also
didn't have this stupid addictive
scrolling component, but here we go.
Here we are. Right.
Any good PhD application advice?
Go try to find and talk to the
professors you're interested in working
with. They will not reply to you. Their
students will
actually know what the hell that they
do. and make sure you're actually
interested.
PhD is an investment of five to six
years of your life. Do not make it
lightly.
I don't know why they decided, oh yeah,
the everything app thing. Like I don't
want a freaking everything app, right?
I basically I mean I like having this
stream. This is chill, right? But I
basically I want to just be like left in
peace to you know stay fit
work on research to solve actually
important problems not like the
performative pretending to solve
problems like actually solve problems
and then get sufficient rest to stay
sharp doing all of that.
That's basically it.
Searching RL on YouTube. Yeah. So, I
mean, now you see why I have to do a
little bit of the promo, right? Because
otherwise people like, you don't find
this
like where academia was in theoretical
physics.
Yeah, academia and RL is a total mess as
well. I know, maybe I'm jaded. I had a
great adviser and everything, but like
academia just is not it's really not the
place for new ideas, right? It's only
the place for certain types of new
ideas.
You don't need a new operating system.
There's really not that much you would
do different. Exactly. Just Linux.
I know you could try to like actually
make Abuntu properly stable and like
stick a better desktop envelope.
Like I would love a version of my old um
tryh hard i3 setup from undergrad that
like actually works and doesn't crash
everything constantly.
Did pong with puffer. Got it working.
Use it on fiber optic network graph and
get paid on the clock for practicing
puffer. Awesome.
That is awesome.
If you are part of a larger company that
is interested, we do have um you know we
do contracts in a specific area. I don't
know if it would be large enough to make
sense, but
there is stuff we can do. If not, you're
also free to just do it yourself.
It is all open source
and I'm generally happy to just see
people solving cool problems with my
stuff.
Yeah, I know what to do with this now.
I've sort of thought through it. Okay.
So, here's what we're going to do.
unironically, We managed to get that
chess M solid. We could name up our
chest and register it to the computer
chess championship. That'd be fun.
I It's very difficult to beat the
dedicated stuff just because like you
know search versus not search is tough
and also like chess is a area where
there's just been so much domain
specific work. But I mean, if we could
get a good chess agent that just like
runs super fast and doesn't use search
um and just is like puffer standard RL
train at home. That would be awesome.
We have quite a bit of funding.
Reach out for a fivem minute
conversation. Sure.
I mean, it really just depends what
you're uh, you know, you're looking
into.
Okay. So,
there's several things that need to be
tweaked here.
I don't really think
will work but worth a scope at least.
Sure.
And a buddy of mine who's actively in
the field your article on protein
reaction was damn that's wild.
Yeah, it's cool stuff, right?
And honestly like protein still has a
couple quirks to it that I need to fix.
It could be way better.
probably one of the things I'm going to
do as part of this
RL just has to work across the board. No
questions asked. Just work.
Does anybody know actually um
if I wanted to add is it just
tensorboard
protein.
I could make the next generation of it
creatine.
Why did all these freaking things have
the shittiest sights Pepper.
Is this not just a tensorboard hack?
Wait, this is totally a tensorboard
hack, isn't it?
Well, we maybe we don't need all this
crap, right? We don't need like this
stuff.
We just get like a single plot.
Yeah, we can just hack something
together for this, I'm sure.
Okay.
and get a good night's sleep so I can
puff up tomorrow. Catch you later. See
you around.
Why is this suddenly super freaking
slow?
That's weird, right?
Oh, you know, that's actually fine. It's
because the sweep args. That's fine.
Seven
doesn't need 2 E8 right
and get two E7 maybe
mean is eight
80 is Crazy.
This
That's better.
30 seconds.
We trained our AI to say I don't know
rather than make stuff up.
I believe it when I see it.
Quick question.
PPO can handle
tons of inputs. would making one extra
input that is technically redundant
because the neural
but would making one extra input that is
technically redundant
because the neural net could learn to
infer this value.
It'll be a good idea because it would
speed why would that speed up training
time? Why would giving it like some
random extra crap speed up training
It would have to learn addition to infer
the value.
No, it would have to learn to do Wait,
what? It would have to learn addition to
No, it doesn't. It just has to learn to
zero the weight on the input.
Not how that works.
Learn to zero the weight
or to learn some combination that zeros
the weight all the time.
No, just giving it noise is not going to
help.
A break on the walker and kinematics.
Give me a headache. Working on agent
controlling a boat.
Fluid dynamics. What? Heck of a break
there.
I actually don't know what the heck that
is, frankly.
I mean, it's a bad run, clearly.
Okay, so there's this mini batch problem
and then there's the BPT Horizon
problem, right?
Yes, this is like a totally different
regime, right?
Well, let me think how we design around
this.
They're a good way to design around
Massively screw this up if you do it
this way.
Yeah, there's quite a bit of redesigning
of rethinking of things I have to do.
I think I just need to mentally readjust
to like as this is an easy problem I can
solve quickly to like okay this is a
trickier problem I will solve more
slowly Okay.
We do.
Still not good enough though.
Don't like passing quarks like this [ __ ]
either.
Basically like
when you try to cover a larger regime of
different stuff, a lot of combinations
of params are invalid. And a lot of the
methods typically used for this kind of
punt.
Classical physics is pretty much all I
enjoyed at uni.
Literally anything can be written as an
equation. Anything can be modeled as an
equation.
I would like to have this fixed. I'm
trying to think now. Do I want to have
where are the places I can handle this?
Have the trainer handle
invalid
configs.
Well, that's funny because I'm dumb, not
stupid most of the time.
I don't know. It's It's kind of like
ludicrous to me. I have multiple
different uh XDM chats with well-known
researchers who are just like gooning
half the time. It's ridiculous.
No, what's sad is that I knew multiple
people at MIT who had uh AI boyfriends
and girlfriends. And literally, yes, it
was both.
Yeah, that's like one of the two things
I refuse to work on with RL.
Don't know how I want to do this.
In my mind, puffer lib needs to get
simpler than it is now, right? Not more
complicated.
learning is quite hard when you do not
have a good teacher.
Learning to teach yourself stuff is not
that that hard. It's very very difficult
to teach yourself efficiently. Eat
yourself stuff efficiently though
If I'm clever, I could reparameterize
this such that invalid states are
impossible
at the price of substantially obscuring.
The price would be substantially
obscuring what's going on, which I don't
like.
Honestly, Jess, the thing that I have
the hardest time with is that I can work
very hard, but I can't work very hard
consistently, right? my I my mind gets
burnt out for a few weeks and I need to
take a break. Um and I know it's not a
lack of discipline because in other
areas of my life I'm very disciplined,
right? The last uh month has been a like
wake up, run a 10K on a hard course, do
the same like hard set of lifts, and
then have a very strictly regimented
like diet on a over a,000 calorie per
day cut.
If I could work at peak 100% of the
time, things would be done much faster.
Go get yourself in like very very good
physical shape.
It's the simplest.
In another couple weeks, I'll probably
be leaner than I've been since undergrad
while carrying uh like 40 pounds more
muscle than then
at least.
It's not really internal motivation,
Jess, because it's like once I've had a
nice break, I come back, I'll look at
the exact same problem and I'll be very
happy to work on it.
It feels very very similar in some sense
to like when you're just burnt from like
a long training block. But even when
you're burnt from a long training block,
like you can put in a decent enough
session, mental is like way harder. No,
when you're doing hard, it's like kind
of like trying to do um
either like a like a fast run when
you're burnt or like a heavy lifting
session when you're burnt. It just
doesn't work.
And there's not really like I mean I can
chill here and work at like, you know,
half efficiency or whatever on simpler
things,
but that's about it.
This is kind of fine for a bit. I do
want to figure this out.
How many of these parameters would we
need to screw with to make invalid
states unrepresentable?
Let's say that we had
let's say that we had total agents or
whatever is a parameter total m total
agents some [ __ ] like that right
you feel antsy when facing the problem
or tired just tired.
So realistically we could have a total
agents or whatever.
We had have a total agents parameter
that would solve this one.
We let BPT Horizon be whatever it
I don't want to have to do like numb
mini batches. or something though.
you and feel free to message me stuff.
Jess, it like it feels kind of normal in
some sense to me.
Like it feels almost like a direct
analog to um
you know to like physical hard like hard
physical training in some sense.
15 hours a week.
that kid. Yeah, that's rough.
About 15.
Probably about 15 as well.
About two hours a day.
average.
I don't like any of the solutions I'm
coming up um coming up with for this
here is basically right like
I can reparameterize this in a way that
like it's impossible to come up with an
invalid config
but then you obscure what you're
actually doing. That seems very bad to
me.
I also don't like though that the
alternative right is that you specify
the parameters that you would like to
have specified and then you have to
compute a bunch of intermediates
and make sure that all of those
computations come out valid. That's a
lot of additional checking code.
You have to basically handle what
happens when you give it an invalid
config as well. And then when you're
sweeping stuff, right? You have to
handle it automatically.
I don't like that one bit.
I mean, the vast majority of these
parameters don't have this issue.
It's really just stuff around the number
of environments and the batch size and
the mini batch size and all that. It's
like four total parameters.
Yeah, but Jess, the way that Puffer Lib
has gotten to where it is is by me
spending a lot of time caring about
stuff like this.
and details.
You definitely don't want to have runs
not be reproducible across different
systems.
The only thing that we do that for at
the moment is limiting the total number
of cores you use.
But that's this does not handle it.
I mean, realistically,
quite a bit of different stuff we could
do out of this.
If I have you sweep
the number of agents,
[ __ ] compute that.
I hate having to compute these
intermediaries.
The alternative is I could soften it so
that you can parameterize a lot of
stuff. Some of which just might be
obviously stupid.
Not bad.
I like the idea of explicitly
parameterizing as much as possible.
We can mess with some things off of
this, right?
I'm trying to make it just so that you
can just run sweep and it'll find you
your good config for your new end.
out of the box
for whatever it is you're trying to do.
We're going to do this.
I'm going to do sweep and num ms.
x of 4096 Six
B8.
This results in jank mood. What do you
mean?
I'm gooey wrapped puffer lip.
You have ray lip gooies
for the ends.
If you need a gooey to do RL, you
shouldn't be doing RL.
Oh,
yeah. I have to figure this thing out.
There's like this weird phenomenon.
you know, instead of running this as
sweep, let me run train.
Puffer and gooey for people scared. If
you're scared of CLI, I don't know what
you're doing.
Hey, Spencer.
Uh, yeah. I guess if I wait until
I'm trying to think when is the best
what's the best way to do this.
If I stop now,
it's only going to be like four by the
time
we're done at the latest.
I guess I can just take a quick break
from stream and chat and then I'll boot
it back up after. All right, guys. I'm
going to go chat with Spencer for a bit
about a thing. Um, and
yeah, I'm going to go chat with Spencer
about a thing. and I'll be back in I
don't know, however long we end up
chatting for. Um, for folks who are new
around here, this is all research done
in public. Everything's at puffer.ai.
It's all open source. The repo helps me
out a ton. When the disc